NETSH
Let’s take a look at another
Windows-based tool, netsh.
For this section we will consider the
following scenario:
We compromise a Windows 10 target
through a remote vulnerability and obtain
SYSTEM privileges.
After enumerating the compromised machine,
we discover that in addition to being
connected to the current network,
it has an additional network interface
that is connected to a different network.
In this internal subnet we identify a
Windows Server 2016 machine
that has port 445 open.
To continue the scenario, we can now look
for ways to pivot inside the victim
network from the SYSTEM-level shell on the
Windows 10 machine.
Because of our privilege level, we do not
have to deal with User Account Control,
which means we can use the netsh utility,
that is installed by default on every
modern version of Windows,
for port forwarding.
However, for this to work, the Windows
system must have the IP Helper service
running and IPv6 support must be enabled
for the interface we want to use.
Fortunately, both are enabled by default
on Windows operating systems.
We can check that the IP Helper service
is running from the Windows Services
program, and we can confirm IPv6 support
in the network interface’s settings.
Similar to the SSH local port forwarding
example,
we will attempt to redirect traffic
destined for the compromised Windows 10
machine on port 4455
to the Windows Server 2016 machine on
port 445.
In this example, we will use the netsh
interface context,
to add an IP version 4 to IP version 4
proxy,
listening on 10.11.0.22 port 4455,
which will forward the traffic to port
445 on the Windows 2016 Server.
Using netstat,
we can confirm that port 4455 is
listening on the compromised Windows host.
By default, the Windows Firewall will not
allow inbound connections on port 4455.
However, we have SYSTEM privileges,
so we can easily add a firewall rule to
allow inbound connections on that port.
These netsh options are self-explanatory,
but note that we allow,
inbound connections,
and leverage the firewall context of
netsh.
As a final step, we can try to connect to
our compromised Windows machine
on port 4455 using smbclient.
As with our earlier scenario,
Samba needs to be configured with a
minimum SMB version of SMBv2.
If everything goes according to plan, the traffic will be redirected
and the available network shares on the
internal Windows Server machine
will be returned.
We successfully listed the shares,
but smbclient generated an error.
This issue is generally caused by a port
forwarding error,
but let’s test this and determine if we
can interact with the shares.
The error restricted the ability to list
workgroups but it does not influence
our ability to mount the share, proving
that the port forward was successful.